today we walk you through some tile
making as I Mod small world with a race
of ninjas not to be confused with a
ninja racing which are extremely good
times welcome to DIY gaming your source
for tips and walkthroughs for making
your own prototype and play testing
components I'm your host Brian Beach now
tiles and cardboard elements are some of
my favorite kind of game components to
have in play but some of my least
favorite to make you'll definitely want
to have these manufacture professionally
but we need something for the play
testing phase some kind of prototype and
it doesn't have to look bad or even be
that difficult to make these so let's
hit the chopping block and get to work
and by chopping block
I mean slicer of course scissors are
acceptable in the absence of a slicer
and you'll want them for irregular or
smaller cuts
I also recommend an old crummy pair of
scissors for cutting the super sticky
double-sided sticky sticker sheets I
mentioned we're going to be modding
small world and what that means is we've
come up with their own race with its own
rules and even our own artwork for a
little pub meeple mini expansion to the
game will provide the link to the PDF
down in the description below
you'll need to print out either this or
whatever it is that you're making on to
a cardstock that's about index card
thick you'll also want to pick up some
double-sided stick sheets this
particular version is a mounting double
tack mounting film this is a permanent
bond kind of thing so make sure you read
on there you don't get the temporary or
the peel away kind and then finally
you'll also need some chipboard whatever
your subject matter begin by cutting the
card stock of your printouts go ahead
and trim them to their final size it's
important that the front and back side
of your pieces are printed to match in
size and mirror in shape if you're
following along with our small world mod
go ahead and cut out the race banner as
well take your double-sided sticky
and lay out all the fronts and backs of
your pieces to determine the best way to
conserve your sticky paper real estate
as this is the most expensive part of
your project you will want to conserve
as much of this as possible using the
old crummy scissors cut down the
double-sided sticky paper to the right
size to avoid wasting the extra remove
the backing from one side and carefully
stick on all the front and back graphics
now cut these apart and trim them down
as close to the cardstock graphics as
possible without cutting into your card
stock the sticky paper tears easier then
it cuts if you angle the scissors just
right it may take some practice but be
careful not to cut into your card stock
itself next separate the front and back
pieces and remove the Pala backs for
later use now bring in your chipboard
and begin peeling the backings off the
front side graphics of fixing them to
the chipboard surface cut and trim the
chipboard to the edge of your cardstock
it should be easy to cut the chipboard
flush with the card stock but it's still
possible to slip into your graphics so
be careful finally bring back those back
sides and pill away their backside
backings double-check your placement and
carefully approach your chipboard as you
come in for a landing with a precision
of a samurai you will find a perfect fit
but for the rest of us a little trimming
might be necessary the benefits of this
method is that it guarantees the front
and back side of our towels match up
graphically but this does become
somewhat tedious when we're making a
large number of game components now for
that linen feel to your tiles go pick up
some textured scrapbooking paper or like
what I use for these homemade
Carcassonne tiles this is an acrylic
paint paper that had a bit of texture to
it now my ink didn't take as well to
this paper as it did to our cardstock
ninja's which is why these look a bit
more faded but when you're digging
around in the bag you can't really feel
the difference between these and the
tiles that came with the original game
whatever it is you decide to use make
sure you're happy with your final prints
before you commit to this project thank
you for joining me today for DIY gaming
make sure you subscribe to this channel
and don't forget to download your free
race of ninja
just another way pub meeble is making
the world a better place and that's a
wrap